{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f44\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f56\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f57\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f59\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f60\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f61\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f62\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f63\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f64\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid420888 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid420888\rsid2251583\rsid2952118\rsid5133315\rsid5188499\rsid10100269\rsid14227680\rsid14762161}
{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.2627;}{\info{\title ConservationTools Documentation}{\author The Man}{\operator The Man}{\creatim\yr2007\mo3\dy26\hr21\min17}{\revtim\yr2007\mo3\dy26\hr22\min11}{\version4}{\edmins55}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords387}
{\nofchars2208}{\*\company Fraternity of Dudes}{\nofcharsws2590}{\vern16437}}\margl1319\margr1319 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319
\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel
\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot10100269 \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid420888\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid420888 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid5133315\charrsid420888 ConservationTools Documentation
\par 
\par The ConservationTools function library was created to analyze multiple sequence alignments handled by SPADE\rquote 
s AlignmentEditor application. Alignments are associated with protein objects through amino acid .data dictionaries. These .data attributes are associated with all atoms and molecules, and are simply generic repositories for non-numerical data associated 
with the elements of a MolecularSystem object. The applysequencealignment function collects a character string from each amino acid\rquote s column of the multiple sequence alignment, and stores it in the AminoAcid .data attribute, indexed by the key \'93
conservation\'94. 
\par 
\par Once the alignment has been applied to a protein object, further analysis can be done to score the relative levels of conservation observed at each position. Smoothed conservation scores have proven useful for detection of functional sites on proteins
, particularly protein-protein interfaces. Conservation scores are created by the 
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid5133315\charrsid2952118 calculate_conservation(system, asa_style='sidechain_asa', rewrite=0, viewer=None)
\par }{\insrsid5133315\charrsid420888 
\par function, which adds values to each AminoAcid\rquote s .features attribute, indexed by a key that describes the algo}{\insrsid2952118 rithm used to produce the score. Each method considers only the solvent accessible amino acids
; all inaccessible amino acids\rquote  .feature attributes still receive the key, but it indexes the value -1 to indicate its exclusion from the calculation.}{\insrsid5133315\charrsid420888 
\par 
\par \'93}{\i\insrsid5133315\charrsid2952118 normalized_0D_conservation}{\insrsid5133315\charrsid420888 \'94 \endash  scores for unsmoothed conservation scores are }{\insrsid2952118 simply }{\insrsid5133315\charrsid420888 normalized from zero to one. 
\par 
\par \'93}{\i\insrsid5133315\charrsid2952118 normalized_1D_conservation}{\insrsid5133315\charrsid420888 \'94 \endash  unsmoothed conservation scores are averaged over a seven amino acid window surrounding each position. These scores are then normalized. 

\par 
\par \'93}{\i\insrsid5133315\charrsid2952118 normalized_3D_conservation}{\insrsid5133315\charrsid420888 \'94 \endash 
 unsmoothed conservation scores are averaged over a region including all amino acids with alpha carbon atoms within 6 angstroms of the central amino acid\rquote s alpha carbon atom. 
\par 
\par \'93}{\i\insrsid5133315\charrsid2952118 normalized_ms3D_conservation}{\insrsid5133315\charrsid420888 \'94 \endash 
 unsmoothed conservation scores are averaged over a region including all amino acids whose sidechains are not shielded from the central amino acid\rquote s sidechain. The shielding algorithm is described elsewhere. 
\par }{\insrsid5133315 
\par }{\insrsid2952118 The }{\b\insrsid2952118\charrsid2952118 calculate_conservation}{\insrsid2952118  function takes as input a molecular system to perform the analysis on, a p}{\insrsid14227680 arameter for specifying whether to calculate the }{
\insrsid5188499 solvent accessibility for the whole amino acid \'93asa\'94 or the sidechain only \'93sidechain_asa\'94, }{\insrsid2952118 
\par }{\insrsid2952118\charrsid420888 
\par }{\insrsid5133315\charrsid420888 The ConservationTools pack also offers rudimentary tools for removing active sites and low-conservation loops from the analysis. These features }{\insrsid2952118 require }{\insrsid5133315\charrsid420888 further develop}{
\insrsid2952118 ment and testing}{\insrsid5133315\charrsid420888 .}{\insrsid420888 
\par }{\insrsid2952118 
\par 
\par }}