{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f10\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f44\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f56\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f57\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}
{\f59\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f60\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f61\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f62\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}
{\f63\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f64\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid199346\rsid858117\rsid1118066\rsid1142992\rsid1211050\rsid1970460\rsid2032680\rsid2097832\rsid2180740\rsid2895785\rsid3024146\rsid3033689
\rsid3766485\rsid7340757\rsid7354160\rsid7495239\rsid7741903\rsid8083733\rsid8606763\rsid9774734\rsid10704448\rsid10832742\rsid11040749\rsid11301937\rsid11367631\rsid11618956\rsid12194612\rsid12800299\rsid13635331\rsid14710664\rsid15605694}
{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.2627;}{\info{\title Class System}{\author Deacon Sweeney}{\operator Deacon Sweeney}{\creatim\yr2005\mo6\dy14\hr20\min45}{\revtim\yr2005\mo6\dy24\hr7\min53}{\version4}{\edmins2738}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2377}
{\nofchars13554}{\*\company Home PC}{\nofcharsws15900}{\vern16437}}\margl1319\margr1319 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319
\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale114\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel
\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot2032680 \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid3024146\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3024146 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\insrsid2032680\charrsid3024146 Class System
\par 
\par }{\b\f0\ul\insrsid2032680\charrsid1118066 System Introduction
\par }{\f0\insrsid3024146\charrsid3024146 The MolecularSystem object}{\f0\insrsid2032680\charrsid3024146  is }{\f0\insrsid3024146\charrsid3024146 designed }{\f0\insrsid2032680\charrsid3024146 
to provide a lightweight, dependency-free data structure for accessing and manipulating }{\f0\insrsid3024146\charrsid3024146 molecular structure and associated}{\f0\insrsid2032680\charrsid3024146  data. The toplevel System class acts as a container for }{
\f0\insrsid1970460 the set of }{\f0\insrsid3024146 MolecularComponents }{\f0\insrsid8083733 classes}{\f0\insrsid1970460 . These}{\f0\insrsid8606763  include}{\f0\insrsid3024146  two parent classes}{\f0\insrsid8083733 ;}{\f0\insrsid8606763  Atom and }{
\f0\insrsid3024146 Molecule from }{\f0\insrsid1970460 the latter of }{\f0\insrsid3024146 which }{\f0\insrsid8083733 P}{\f0\insrsid3024146 olymer}{\f0\insrsid8083733 , Ligand, Water, Nucleotide, and AminoAcid inherit}{\f0\insrsid3024146 
. Classes Protein and NucleotideChain }{\f0\insrsid1970460 then }{\f0\insrsid3024146 inherit from class Polymer.}{\f0\insrsid2032680\charrsid3024146 
\par 
\par }{\b\f0\ul\insrsid2032680\charrsid1118066 Loading and Saving Data
\par }{\f0\insrsid2032680\charrsid3024146 System objects are first instantiated with a standard init call (ie. x=System(}{\f0\insrsid8606763 filename}{\f0\insrsid2032680\charrsid3024146 ), }{\f0\insrsid8606763 
where filename is a PDB file (format .pdb or .ent), or a BMS}{\f0\insrsid2032680\charrsid3024146 . }{\f0\insrsid8606763 Alternatively, t}{\f0\insrsid2032680\charrsid3024146 he System's .load_pdb() }{\f0\insrsid8606763 and .load_system() }{
\f0\insrsid2032680\charrsid3024146 function}{\f0\insrsid8606763 s can be used to load or reload system objects.
\par }{\f0\insrsid7340757 
\par }{\b\f0\ul\insrsid7340757\charrsid1118066 The Data Hierarchy
\par }{\f0\insrsid7340757 The load_pdb}{\f0\insrsid2032680\charrsid3024146  function create}{\f0\insrsid7340757 s}{\f0\insrsid2032680\charrsid3024146 
 and stores the above Molecule objects in the lists ProteinList, NucleotideChainList, LigandList, and WaterList. System's supplementary_initiali
zation function is then called, which duplicates the pointers to the same Molecule objects within several other lists and dictionaries, created purely for the sake of convenience. When the MolecularSystem object is stored}{\f0\insrsid7340757 ,}{
\f0\insrsid2032680\charrsid3024146  these supplementary data structures are deleted, and only the remaining data is pickled. This approach minimizes the space required for storage. To reload the data, the load_system function is 
\par called with the filename of the pickled file. The supplementary_initialization function is then
 applied to this object to recreate the more convenient data structures. Another way of saving the data is to use the save_pdb function, which saves a file in standard PDB format.}{\f0\insrsid2032680 
\par }{\f0\insrsid7340757 
\par }{\f0\insrsid12194612 MolecularSystem (ProteinList, NucleotideChainList, LigandList, WaterList, etc.)
\par       |
\par  contains
\par       |
\par Molecule}{\f0\insrsid7354160     }{\f0\insrsid12194612    ----}{\f0\insrsid12194612\charrsid12194612 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 224 \\f "Wingdings" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f10\fs20}}}{\f0\insrsid12194612     Polymer   ----}{\f0\insrsid12194612\charrsid12194612 
{\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 224 \\f "Wingdings" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f10\fs20}}}{\f0\insrsid12194612    }{\f0\insrsid7354160    }{\f0\insrsid12194612  NucleotideChain
\par                    }{\f0\insrsid7354160     }{\f0\insrsid12194612                              ----}{\f0\insrsid12194612\charrsid12194612 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 224 \\f "Wingdings" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f10\fs20}}}{\f0\insrsid12194612   }{
\f0\insrsid7354160 Pr}{\f0\insrsid12194612 otein
\par }\pard \s15\ql \fi720\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0\pararsid12194612 {\f0\insrsid7354160       }{\f0\insrsid12194612          |}{\f0\insrsid7354160   /}{\f0\insrsid12194612 
\par }{\f0\insrsid7354160   }{\f0\insrsid12194612    }{\f0\insrsid7354160      contain}{\f0\insrsid12194612 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12194612 {\f0\insrsid7354160     }{\f0\insrsid12194612                  \\----}{\f0\insrsid12194612\charrsid12194612 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 224 \\f "Wingdings"
 \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f10\fs20}}}{\f0\insrsid12194612     Nucleotide   }{\f0\insrsid7354160  }{\f0\insrsid12194612     }{\f0\insrsid12194612\charrsid12194612 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 223 \\f "Wingdings" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f10\fs20}}}{\f0\insrsid12194612 
------/
\par     }{\f0\insrsid7354160     }{\f0\insrsid12194612              \\----}{\f0\insrsid12194612\charrsid12194612 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 224 \\f "Wingdings" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f10\fs20}}}{\f0\insrsid12194612     AminoAcid   }{\f0\insrsid7354160  }{
\f0\insrsid12194612    }{\f0\insrsid12194612\charrsid12194612 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 223 \\f "Wingdings" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f10\fs20}}}{\f0\insrsid12194612 -----/
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3024146 {\f0\insrsid12194612         }{\f0\insrsid7354160     }{\f0\insrsid12194612          \\----}{\f0\insrsid12194612\charrsid12194612 {\field{\*\fldinst 
SYMBOL 224 \\f "Wingdings" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f10\fs20}}}{\f0\insrsid12194612     Ligand
\par             }{\f0\insrsid7354160     }{\f0\insrsid12194612      \\----}{\f0\insrsid12194612\charrsid12194612 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 224 \\f "Wingdings" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f10\fs20}}}{\f0\insrsid12194612     Water
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12194612 {\f0\insrsid12194612     |
\par  contains
\par     |
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3024146 {\f0\insrsid12194612 Atom
\par 
\par }{\b\f0\ul\insrsid7340757\charrsid1118066 Data Objects in class System
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11040749 {\f0\insrsid11040749\charrsid11040749 self.filename}{\f0\insrsid11301937  \endash  }{\f0\insrsid7741903        }{\f0\insrsid11301937 
the filename of the last }{\f0\insrsid11618956 load or }{\f0\insrsid11301937 save}{\f0\insrsid11040749\charrsid11040749 
\par }{\f0\insrsid3033689 self.selected \endash  }{\f0\insrsid7741903         }{\f0\insrsid3033689 an internal selection argument}{\f0\insrsid11040749\charrsid11040749 
\par self.ProteinList }{\f0\insrsid3033689 \endash  }{\f0\insrsid7741903    }{\f0\insrsid3033689 a list of }{\f0\insrsid12800299 Protein objects}{\f0\insrsid1211050 
\par }{\f0\insrsid11040749\charrsid11040749 self.NucleotideChainList}{\f0\insrsid2097832  }{\f0\insrsid1211050 \endash }{\f0\insrsid2097832  }{\f0\insrsid1211050 a list of }{\f0\insrsid12800299 N}{\f0\insrsid1211050 ucleotide}{\f0\insrsid12800299 Chain objects
}{\f0\insrsid11040749\charrsid11040749 
\par self.LigandList}{\f0\insrsid12800299  \endash  }{\f0\insrsid7741903    }{\f0\insrsid12800299 a list of Ligand objects}{\f0\insrsid11040749\charrsid11040749 
\par self.WaterList}{\f0\insrsid12800299  \endash  }{\f0\insrsid7741903     }{\f0\insrsid12800299 a list of Water objects}{\f0\insrsid11040749\charrsid11040749 
\par self.HeaderLines }{\f0\insrsid12800299 \endash  the full list of header lines}{\f0\insrsid11040749\charrsid11040749 
\par self.header}{\f0\insrsid12800299  }{\f0\insrsid7741903 \endash }{\f0\insrsid12800299  }{\f0\insrsid7741903           the \lquote HEADER\rquote  entry from HeaderLines}{\f0\insrsid7340757\charrsid11040749 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3024146 {\f0\insrsid2032680 
\par }{\b\f0\ul\insrsid1118066\charrsid1118066 Redundant Data Objects in class System
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11618956 {\f0\insrsid9774734 self.MoleculeList \endash  }{\f0\insrsid7495239 classes Ligand, Water, Protein, and NucleotideChain}{
\f0\insrsid11618956\charrsid11618956 
\par }{\f0\insrsid9774734 self.SmallMoleculeList \endash  classes Ligand and Water
\par self.PolymerList }{\f0\insrsid7495239 \endash }{\f0\insrsid9774734  }{\f0\insrsid7495239 classes Protein and NucleotideChain}{\f0\insrsid11618956\charrsid11618956 
\par self.PolymerDict }{\f0\insrsid3766485 \endash  self.PolymerList keyed by chain name}{\f0\insrsid11618956\charrsid11618956 
\par }{\f0\insrsid3766485 self.ProteinDict \endash  self.ProteinList keyed by chain name}{\f0\insrsid11618956\charrsid11618956 
\par }{\f0\insrsid2180740 self.NucleotideChainDict self.NucleotideChainList keyed by chain name}{\f0\insrsid11618956\charrsid11618956 
\par self.LigandDict }{\f0\insrsid858117 \endash  self.Ligand keyed by }{\f0\insrsid10704448\charrsid10704448 res_number}{\f0\insrsid10704448  concatenated to chain_name}{\f0\insrsid11618956\charrsid10704448 
\par }{\f0\insrsid10704448 self.WaterDi}{\f0\insrsid11367631 ct}{\f0\insrsid11367631\charrsid11618956  }{\f0\insrsid14710664 \endash  self.Water}{\f0\insrsid11367631  keyed by }{\f0\insrsid11367631\charrsid10704448 res_number}{\f0\insrsid11367631 
 concatenated to chain_name}{\f0\insrsid11618956 
\par }{\f0\insrsid11618956\charrsid11618956 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3024146 {\f0\insrsid2032680\charrsid3024146 dev notes:
\par   supplementary_initialization should have an underscore in front
\par   b_factor needs moved from a direct attribut}{\f0\insrsid13635331 e}{\f0\insrsid2032680\charrsid3024146  to a 'features' attribute.
\par 
\par }{\b\f0\ul\insrsid2032680\charrsid1118066 Other functions
\par }{\f0\insrsid8083733 Each}{\f0\insrsid2032680\charrsid3024146  object can have }{\f0\insrsid8083733 its}{\f0\insrsid2032680\charrsid3024146  internal selected attributes toggled on with select(), toggled off with
 deselect(). The get_bounds function provides the min and max x, y, and z values. normalize_b_factors is used by initialization, 
\par and should be made obsolete by the automatic normalization of features attributes. The function renumber_atoms sequentially renumbers the atoms of all molecules, first in the order Proteins, NucleotideChains, Ligands, and 
\par Waters, then by chain name, and finally residue number. The create_hydrogen function is created to add atoms to the proteins (most often hydrogens). Add the atom by the index specified in the arguments.
\par 
\par dev notes: 
\par   normalize_b_factors should have an underscore 
\par   add a rename_chains function
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par  MolecularComponents
\par 
\par The MolecularComponents classes are designed to hierarchically organize the 
\par data contained within the System class. Look in the MolecularComponents 
\par directory for these files.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par  Class FutamuraHash
\par 
\par }{\f0\insrsid15605694 C}{\f0\insrsid2032680\charrsid3024146 lass FutamuraHash is useful for quickly accessing atoms within a given distance from other atoms. }{\f0\insrsid2895785 The hash table divides a molecule\rquote 
s space into grid blocks, such that only local grid blocks are traversed when looking for atoms within }{\f0\insrsid15605694 given distances }{\f0\insrsid2895785 of each other. }{\f0\insrsid2032680\charrsid3024146 The molecule itself 
(any implementation of class Molecule) is the first argument. The second argument creates grid space that surpasses the molecule's actual min and max }{\f0\insrsid2895785 x, y, and z }{\f0\insrsid2032680\charrsid3024146 coordinates by the given amount. }{
\f0\insrsid15605694 This is useful if distances are to include points outside of the molecule, like its surface representation. }{\f0\insrsid2032680\charrsid3024146 The third }{\f0\insrsid15605694 argument }{\f0\insrsid2032680\charrsid3024146 
is the maximum distance another atom is allowed to be and still be within range.}{\f0\insrsid15605694  This is the }{\f0\insrsid2032680\charrsid3024146 
\par 
\par dev notes:
\par   logically reorder the arguments to initialization
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par Class Molecule
\par 
\par The major class of MolecularComponents is classMolecule, which classPolymer, 
\par classWater, and classLigand all inherit from. classMolecule contains:
\par 
\par ATTRIBUTES:
\par x.atoms     - list of atoms 
\par x.atom_dict - dictionary of atoms; indexed by atom_number
\par x.features  - features dictionary
\par x.centroid  - centroid point object
\par x.chain_name- chain name
\par x.res_type  - res_type -- if polymer, the first monomer's res_type is used
\par x.selected  - selected boolean ()
\par x.visible   - 'is currently visible' bool (described in class MolecularViewer)
\par x.vtk_arg_list - a list of visualization args (described in MolecularViewer)
\par 
\par FUNCTIONS:
\par x.add_atom(atom)  - adds an atom to both .atoms and .atom_dict
\par x.get_bounds()    - uses atoms to determine x, y, and z bounds
\par x.len()           - returns the number of atoms
\par x.pdb_print()     - calls pdb_print on every atom in x.atoms
\par x.get_pdb_lines() - returns pdb lines as a list of strings
\par x.select()        - selects all atoms
\par x.deselect()      - deselects all atoms
\par x.get_bonds_list(atom)
\par   used during initialization; locates the .atoms index of the argument atom
\par   for x.get_bonds_list_from_int()
\par x.get_bonds_list_from_int(index)
\par   uses the index to access self.atoms[index]. Returns a set of coordinates
\par   denoting the half-way point to all of the covalently bonded atoms. This is 
\par   only used for graphics, but can be modified to give the covalently bonded 
\par   atoms themselves.
\par x.min_bonded_distance(atom1, atom2) - returns the minimum distance for two 
\par   atoms to be bonded, given their atom types.
\par x.get_central_pt() - only works for classes AminoAcid and Nucleotide. Returns
\par   the alpha carbon atom coordinates for amino acids, or the 'C3' atom from
\par   nucleotides. Returns a Point object.
\par x.update_cfs(coor_list) - updates the coordinates (ie. transition to the next 
\par   conformer). This accepts a list of stings as input, where the format is:
\par   res_type res_number chain_name float float float ...
\par   The float float float triples should be in the same order as the atoms in 
\par   the pdb file for that residue
\par x.build_futamura_intersection_table(solvent_radius):
\par   adds x.x_table to the molecule's features. The x_table is a dictionary, 
\par   indexed by the atom_number of all atoms in the molecule. Each element of the 
\par   dictionary contains a list of various info on atoms that are distanced from 
\par   each other by less than the solvent_radius argument given.
\par x.fill_densities(distance_cutoff):
\par   Calculates atomic densities for all atoms. This is the number of atoms within
\par   a sphere of radius distance_cutoff from each query atom. The number over the
\par   max seen over the molecule is added to the atom's .features dictionary under
\par   the index 'atomic_density'.
\par 
\par dev notes:
\par x.get_bonds_list() mechanics are outdated by the addition of .atom_dict.
\par x.min_bonded_distance() should be updated with lots of chemical info.
\par atom_dict should be declared here, rather than in the child classes
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par Class Polymer inherits from class Molecule
\par 
\par ATTRIBUTES:
\par x.parent       - the System object that contains this polymer
\par x.residues     - a list of AminoAcid or Nucleotide objects
\par x.residue_dict - a dictionary of residues; indexed by residue number
\par x.selected     - a boolean indicator for selection
\par x.key          - the single letter chain designator of the polymer
\par x.default_chain_color - default chain color, from self.get_chain_color_word()
\par x.vtk_arg_list - visualization arguments. Described in MolecularViewer.
\par 
\par FUNCTIONS:
\par x.add_residue(res):
\par   adds a residue to both x.residues and x.residue_dict
\par x.len():
\par   returns the number of residues in the polymer
\par x.pdb_print():
\par   calls pdb_print() for all residues
\par x.select():
\par   calls select() on all residues
\par x.deselect():
\par   calls deselect() on all residues
\par x.get_chain_color():
\par   accesses 'colormap' (or 'colorblind_colormap') to obtain the chain color
\par   Returns a RGB triple.
\par x.get_chain_color_word():
\par   ?
\par x.locate_termini():
\par   set the .is_Nterm and .is_Cterm for all residues. .is_*term is 0 for most 
\par   residues, unless the residue is a literal terminus (first or last residue), 
\par   or is a terminal residue due to disordered atoms in an xray structure.
\par x.res_number_to_residues_index(res_number):
\par   OUTDATED. Uses a residue number, from the PDB file, to locate a residue in
\par   the .residues list attribute. Use residue_dict instead.
\par x.assign_atom_distances(mindist=0.0, maxdist=12.0):
\par   For each central atom (alpha carbon or 'C3' atom), add a 'nearby_cps' index 
\par   to the atom's .data dictionary attribute. This is a list of actual atoms 
\par   that are between mindist and maxdist from each query central atom.
\par x.get_central_point_list():
\par   returns a list of all of the central atoms as points.
\par x.get_central_atom_list():
\par   returns a list of all of the central atoms as atoms.
\par 
\par dev notes:
\par x.get_chain_color_word() doesn't seem to make sense mechanically. Fix it.
\par remove all references to res_number_to_residues_index, which is outdated by 
\par the residue_dict.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par class Protein inherits from Polymer
\par 
\par ATTRIBUTES:
\par x.residues_dict - OUTDATED. use '.residue_dict' from class polymer
\par 
\par FUNCTIONS:
\par x.get_sequence():
\par   returns the sequence as a string of single letter amino acid codes.
\par x.print_sequence():
\par   prints the sequence as a string of single letter amino acid codes.
\par x.fill_proteolysis_fragments(plys_type):
\par x.get_nearest_proteolysis_fragment(query_weight):
\par   described in BlissModificationViewer
\par x.fill_pseudo_sidechains(type=1):
\par   if type 1, calculate the center of mass of each sidechain and store as each
\par   residue's .pseudo_sidechain attribute. If type 0, calculate the bisector of
\par   the triangle formed between a query residue's alpha carbon and the two 
\par   adjacent alpha carbons. Follow the line made by the bisector and the query 
\par   alpha carbon two angstroms past the carbon. That point gets stored as the 
\par   residue's .pseudo_sidechain attribute. This is useful for approximating 
\par   sidechain center of mass when residue type is not important, or when only 
\par   alpha carbon atoms are available.
\par x.fill_neighbors_lists(qscore=0.35, dist_thresh=14.0, force_rewrite=0):
\par   This function attempts to extract, for each residue, other residues whose 
\par   sidechains are unshielded from the query residue's sidechain. The
\par   neighboring residues are stored in a list for each residue, called
\par   .neighbors. Unshielded residues are useful for describing the chemical 
\par   environment of a central residue. Unshielded pairs tend to interact in the 
\par   same functions as one another. Lower qscore values give larger patches (down 
\par   to about 0.05), and higher values give smaller patches (up to about 2-3). 
\par   dist_thresh can be used to give a maximum distance another pseudo-sidechain 
\par   is allowed to be before being unavailable. fill_neighbors_lists creates a 
\par   file for fast re-loading of the contacts. The file is the standard 
\par   system.get_filename_by_extension call, with a '.ctc' extension. 
\par x.assign_ss_from_header():
\par   Use the header lines from the pdb file (available in the System object) to 
\par   assign secondary structure to each residue. The information is stored in 
\par   each residue's .features dictionary, under the index 'SS'.
\par x.assign_asa(solvent_radius, point_count, forced_rewrite=0):
\par   calculate the percent solvent accessability for each residue, and store in 
\par   the residue's .features dictionary, under 'asa' and 'sidechain_asa'.
\par x.get_core_alpha_carbons(core_cutoff=8, neighbor_thresh=3):
\par   makes a quick calculation to determine whether a residue is 'core' or not. 
\par   Depends on .fill_neighbors_lists having been run already. First the function 
\par   passes through all residues, marking those with > core_cutoff neighbors 
\par   present in their .neighbors attributes. Then, any marked residue that is 
\par   neighbors with neighbor_thresh or greater marked residues is marked as core. 
\par   The core alpha carbons are returned in a list.
\par x.assign_core_atom_distances(core_cutoff, neighbor_thresh,mindist,maxdist):
\par   Assigns core residues, and builds a futamura hash that lists only these. 
\par   Each core central atom recieves a list of other core central atoms between 
\par   mindist and maxdist away.
\par 
\par dev notes:
\par Remove .residues_dict. 'residue_dict is created in class Polymer. Make sure 
\par that all references to it remove the pluralization of residue.
\par All proteolysis-related functions should be put into a ProteolysisProtein 
\par class that inherits from classProtein.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par class NucleotideChain inherits from Polymer
\par 
\par ATTRIBUTES:
\par x.residues_dict - OUTDATED. use '.residue_dict from class Polymer
\par 
\par FUNCTIONS:
\par x.res_number_to_residues_index(res_number):
\par   OUTDATED -- use classPolymer's residue_dict instead
\par x.get_sequence()
\par   returns a string representation of the one-letter code
\par x.print_sequence()
\par   prints a string representation of the one-letter code
\par 
\par dev notes:
\par Remove .residues_dict. Use residue_dict from Polymer instead.
\par Remove function res_number_to_residues_index
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par class AminoAcid inherits from Molecule
\par 
\par ATTRIBUTES:
\par x.parent     - the parent Protein
\par x.atoms      - atom list, redundant with a subset of the parent Protein's
\par x.res_type1  - a one letter representation for the amino acid type
\par x.res_number - the residue number from the PDB file
\par x.has_central_point - boolean - 1 if an alpha carbon is present, else 0
\par x.atoms_dict - a dictionary of atoms, indexed by atom number
\par x.mw         - molecular weight
\par x.is_Nterm   - is either N-terminal or is next to an unresolved region
\par x.is_Cterm   - see x.is_Nterm
\par x.vtk_arg_list - visualization arguments. Described in MolecularViewer.
\par x.visible    - 1 if visible in MolecularViewer, else 0
\par x.transparent - 1 if transparent in MolecularViewer, else 0
\par 
\par FUNCTIONS:
\par x.get_res_number() - returns x.res_number
\par x.get_average_sidechain_position - returns a x,y,z triple center of mass
\par 
\par dev notes:
\par remove x.get_res_number() and all of its calls
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par class Nucleotide inherits from Molecule
\par 
\par ATTRIBUTES:
\par x.parent     - the parent NucleotideChain
\par x.atoms      - atom list, redundant with a subset of the parent Protein's
\par x.res_type1  - a one letter representation for the amino acid type
\par x.res_number - the residue number from the PDB file
\par x.has_central_point - boolean - 1 if an alpha carbon is present, else 0
\par x.atoms_dict - a dictionary of atoms, indexed by atom number
\par x.is_Nterm   - is either N-terminal or is next to an unresolved region
\par x.is_Cterm   - see x.is_Nterm
\par x.vtk_arg_list - visualization arguments. Described in MolecularViewer.
\par x.visible    - 1 if visible in MolecularViewer, else 0
\par x.transparent - 1 if transparent in MolecularViewer, else 0
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par class Ligand inherits from Molecule
\par 
\par ATTRIBUTES:
\par x.parent     - the parent System object
\par x.res_number - the residue number from the PDB file
\par x.key        - '%s%s'%(x.res_number, x.chain_name)
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par class Water inherits from Molecule
\par 
\par ATTRIBUTES:
\par x.res_number - the residue number from the PDB file
\par x.key        - '%s%s'%(self.res_number, self.chain_name)
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }}